The President:
Today I'm at one of Honeywell's
manufacturing facilities in
Golden Valley, Minnesota, where
I just announced a step that
will make it easier for
companies to hire returning
service members who have
the skills our country
needs right now.
It's another part of our effort
to make sure that no American
who fights for this country
abroad has to fight for a job
when they come home.
That's why businesses like
Honeywell are answering our
challenge to hire 100,000
post-9/11 veterans and their
spouses by the end of next year.
That's why I've directed the
government to hire over 200,000
veterans so far -- because our
economy needs their tremendous
talent, and because millions
of Americans are still looking
for a job.
Right now, this country is still
fighting our way back from the
worst economic crisis
since the Great Depression.
The economy's growing again,
but it's not growing as fast
as we'd like.
Our businesses have created
almost 4.3 million new jobs over
the last 27 months, but as we
learned in this week's jobs
report, we're not
creating them fast enough.
And just like last
year at this time,
our economy faces some
serious headwinds.
Gas prices are starting
to come down again,
but when they spiked
over the last few months,
it hit people's
wallets pretty hard.
The crisis in Europe's economy
is casting a shadow on our own.
And all of this makes it even
more challenging to fully
recover and lay the foundation
for an economy that's
built to last.
But from the moment we first
took action to prevent another
depression, we knew the road
to recovery wouldn't be easy.
We knew it would take time, that
there would be ups and downs
along the way.
But we also knew that if we
were willing to act wisely,
and boldly, and together; if
we were willing to keep at it,
and never quit, we'd
come back stronger.
Nothing has shaken my
faith in that belief.
We will come back stronger.
We do have better days ahead.
And that's because of you.
I'd place my bet on American
workers and American businesses
any day of the week.
You're the reason our auto
industry has come roaring back.
You're the reason manufacturing
is hiring at its fastest pace
since the 1990s.
You work hard.
You play by the rules.
And what you deserve are
leaders who will do the same;
who will do whatever it takes to
fight for the middle-class and
grow this economy faster.
Because while we can't fully
control everything that happens
in other parts of the world,
there are plenty of things we
can control here at home.
There are plenty of steps we can
take right now to continue to
create jobs and
grow this economy.
I sent Congress a jobs bill last
September full of the kinds of
bipartisan ideas that would have
put our fellow Americans back to
work and helped reinforce
our economy against those
outside shocks.
I sent them a plan that would
have reduced the deficit by
$4 trillion in a way
that's balanced --
that pays for the job-creating
investments we need by cutting
unnecessary spending and asking
the wealthiest Americans to pay
a little more in taxes.
Since then, Congress has only
passed a few parts of that jobs
bill, like a tax cut that's
allowing working Americans to
keep more of your
paycheck every week.
And that's important.
But Congress hasn't acted on
enough of the other ideas in
that bill that would make
a difference and help create
jobs right now.
There's no excuse for that.
Not when so many people
are looking for work.
are still struggling to
pay the bills.
So my message to Congress
is, let's get to work.
Right now, Congress should pass
a bill to help states prevent
more layoffs, so we can put
thousands of teachers and
firefighters and police
officers back on the job.
Congress should have passed
a bill a long time ago to put
thousands of construction
workers back on the job
rebuilding our roads and
our bridges and our runways.
Instead of just talking a
good game about job creators,
Congress should give small
business owners a tax break for
hiring more workers and
paying them higher wages.
Let's get all that done.
Right now, Congress should give
every responsible homeowner the
opportunity to save an average
of $3,000 a year by refinancing
their mortgage.
Next week, there's a vote in
Congress on a bill that would
give working women the tools
they need to demand equal pay
for equal work.
Ensuring paycheck fairness for
women should be a no-brainer.
And they need to pass that bill.
Right now, Congress also needs
to extend tax credits for clean
energy manufacturers that are
set to expire at the end of the
year -- so that we don't walk
away from 40,000 good jobs that
are being created.
And it's long past time for
Congress to end the tax breaks
for companies that
ship jobs overseas,
and use that money to cover
moving expenses for companies
that are bringing
jobs back to America.
It's not lost on anybody
that this is an election year.
But we've got responsibilities
that are bigger than
an election.
We've got
responsibilities to you.
With so many people
struggling to get by,
now is not the time
to play politics.
Now is not the time for
Congress to sit on its hands.
The American people expect
their leaders to work hard,
no matter what year it is.
That's what I intend to do.
And I expect Democrats and
Republicans to join me.